Chapter 3: Constitutive models of materials

The mathematical description of the physical traits of a given
  material is referred to as its constitutive model and include
  the equations that relate stimuli ( deformations) to the material
  response (force stress energe)

Isotropic materials response to deformation are independent of the
  orientation that such deformation is applied in.

It is common for the design process for constitutive models to define
  certain intermediate quantities (strain measures and invariants)
  which are derived from F, yet capture the specific traits of the
  deformation that the energy or stress values depend on more concisely
  than the deformation gradient itself

A strain measure is intended to be a quantitative descriptor for the
  severity of a given deformation, i.e. a way to gauge how far this
  configuration is from a rest configuration.

Green strain remains zero in rest configuration and is translationally
  and rotationally invariant

R^TR = I
Even for non-rigid motions, the deformation gradient can be decomposed
  as F = RS into the product of a rotation matrix R and a symmetric
  factor S via the polar decomposition.

What is polar Decomposition?

Green strain succeeds in discarding the rotational degrees of freedom,
  which have no bearing on the severity of deformation, and retains
  the stretch/shear information in the 6-DOF symmetric factor S.

The price behind this is that the Energy equation becomes nonlinear
  This leads to nodal functions being quadratic in terms of nodal positions

What is a differential? What is this uppercase delta and :

The small strain tensor e. e = .5(F + F^T) - I
  also called the infinitesimal strain tensor.

This tensor gives rise to a computationally lightweight constitutive model
  called linear elasticity. This enables discritizations which have a linear
  mapping between nodal positions and nodal elastic forces.

This tensor can be considered a reliable measure of deformation for small
  motions only.

The simplest practical constitutive model is linear elasticity, defined
  in terms of the strain energy density.

The stress P is a linear function of the deformation gradient. Nodal forces
  also have a linear dependence on nodal positions.

This model has a low computational cost as opposed to other, nonlinear,
  materials.

St. Venant-Kirchhoff Model

the small strain tensor is a mere approximation of the rotationally invariant
  Green Strain E.

You can improve the linear elasticity model by using E, in the place of the
  strain e.

This is St. Venant-Kirchhoff material and is nonlinear.

to be continued
