MultiMaterialTopologicalOptimizationofStructuralMechanisms

Authors: Jonathon Hiller, Hod Lipson Cornell

Purpose: Multi-Material 3D Printing permits the freeform fabrication of
  complex spatial arrangements. This space is not easily searched using
  conventional topological optimization methods such as homogenization.
  Design substructures using evolutionary techniques tailored for custom
  functionality.

What is homogenization?

They demonstrate the use of evolutionary algorithms to design the 3D
  material distribution of a cantilever beam to meet high-level functional
  goals.

Freeform fabrication technologies:
  Subtractive processes like Computer Numerical Controlled (CNC) milling
    selectively remove material from a homogeneous block. Overhangs and
    concave features are possible, but internal cavities and complicated
    topologies often require prohibitive tooling and complexity.
  Additive Manufacturing (3D printing, solid freeform fabrication) processes
    selectively build up a freeform object layer-by-layer, placing temporary
    supports as needed. However limited to creating parts of a single,
    homogeneous material.

Maximize stiffness of multi material structures

homogenization results are generally limited to optimizing overall deflection
  or force. As more complexity is added, homogenization approaches become
  unwieldy.

Genetic algorithms have been tried in the past and failed because:
  homogenization method greatly outperforms genetic algorithms in the single
    objective structural optimization problems
  Success of GAs strongly depends on the representations of Genotypes and
    Phenotypes.
  Previous representations scaled poorly to large structures

Genotype:
  series of frequency amplitudes at harmonic multiples

Phenotype:
  applying the inverse discrete fourier transform to the series

By representing a 3D object as a3D matrix of frequency amplitude
  components, a number of advantages are realized.
    the ability to render the genotype at any resolution.
    complete dimensional independence
    and naturally available symmetry.

What is the inverse discrete Fourier transform?
What is the discrete cosine transform?

Multidimensional fourier transforms such as the DCT are also linearly
  independent.

A 2D spatial object is constructed by applying the inverse DCT
  independently to each row then to each column of a 2D matrix.

To Read:
  Beaman, J. J., Marcus, H. L., Bourell, D. L., Barlow, J. W., Crawford, R. H. and McAlea, K. P. Solid Freeform Fabrication: A New Direction in Manufacturing. Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1997
  *Malone, E., Rasa, K., Cohen, D., Isaacson, T., Lashley, H. and Lipson, H. "Freeform fabrication of zinc-air batteries and electromechanical assemblies." Rapid Prototyping Journal, Vol. 10, 2004, pp. 58-69.
  *Objet Geometries inc, http://www.objet.com (Accessed: January 28, 2009)
  Díaz, A. and Lipton, R. "Optimal material layout for 3D elastic structures." Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization, Vol. 13, 1997, pp. 60-64.
  Fernandes, P., Guedes, J. M. and Rodrigues, H. "Topology optimization of three-dimensional linear elastic structures with a constraint on "perimeter"." Computers & Structures, Vol. 73, 1999, pp. 583-594.
  Jakiela, M. J., Chapman, C., Duda, J., Adewuya, A. and Saitou, K. "Continuum structural topology design with genetic algorithms." Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering, Vol. 186, 2000, pp. 339-356.
  Kane, C. "Topological Optimum Design using Genetic Algorithms." Control and Cybernetics, Vol. 25, 1996, pp. 1059-1088.
  Kane, C. and Schoenauer, M. Genetic operators for twodimentional shape optimization. City, 1996.
  Kicinger, R., Arciszewski, T. and Jong, K. D. "Evolutionary computation and structural design: A survey of the state-of-theart." Computers & Structures, Vol. 83, 2005, pp. 1943-1978
